Network Layer:
Network layer takes the responsibility for routing packets from source to destination within or outside a subnet. 
it has the responsibility to route the packets from source to destination, mapping different addressing schemes and protocols.

Functionalities: routing
Addressing devices and networks.
Populating routing tables or static routes.
Queuing incoming and outgoing data and then forwarding them according to quality of service constraints set for those packets.
Internetworking between two different subnets.
Delivering packets to destination with best efforts.
Provides connection oriented and connection less mechanism.

Features:
Quality of service management
Load balancing and link management
Security
Interrelation of different protocols and subnets with different schema.
Different logical network design over the physical network design.
L3 VPN and tunnels can be used to provide end to end dedicated connectivity.

Network address can be of one of the following:
Unicast (destined to one host)
Multicast (destined to group)
Broadcast (destined to all)
Anycast (destined to nearest one)

Routing :
When a device has multiple paths to reach a destination, it always selects one path by preferring it over others. 
This selection process is termed as Routing
---
Unicast Protocol:
Distance Vector Routing Protocol
Distance Vector is simple routing protocol which takes routing decision on the number of hops between source and destination. 
A route with less number of hops is considered as the best route.

Link State Routing Protocol
Link State protocol is slightly complicated protocol than Distance Vector. 
It takes into account the states of links of all the routers in a network. 
This technique helps routes build a common graph of the entire network.
example, Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) and Intermediate System to Intermediate System (ISIS)
----
Multicast Routing Protocols
DVMRP  - Distance Vector Multicast Routing Protocol
MOSPF  - Multicast Open Shortest Path First
CBT  - Core Based Tree
PIM  - Protocol independent Multicast

Protocol Independent Multicast is commonly used now. It has two flavors:

PIM Dense Mode
This mode uses source-based trees. It is used in dense environment such as LAN.

PIM Sparse Mode
This mode uses shared trees. It is used in sparse environment such as WAN.

-----

Flooding - When a packet is received, the routers send it to all the interfaces except the one on which it was received.

Time to Live (TTL) - can be used to avoid infinite looping of packets. 

There exists another approach for flooding, which is called Selective Flooding to reduce the overhead on the network. 
In this method, the router does not flood out on all the interfaces, but selective ones.

Shortest Path
Routing decision in networks, are mostly taken on the basis of cost between source and destination. Hop count plays major role here. 
Shortest path is a technique which uses various algorithms to decide a path with minimum number of hops.

Common shortest path algorithms are:
Dijkstra's algorithm
Bellman Ford algorithm
Floyd Warshall algorithm
-----


ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) 
for finding the mac address of destination with only knowing the ip, by asking destination domain who's ip is this and provide ur mac

ICMP (Internet Control message protocol)
Any feedback about network is sent back to the originating host. If some error in the network occurs, it is reported by means of ICMP. 
ICMP contains dozens of diagnostic and error reporting messages.

IPv4 - 32 bit address - 5 classes - uses tcp/ip host addressing mechanism
IPV6 - 128 bit address - 

----

Routing Information Protocol'' (RIP) is a distance-vector protocol which uses hop count as its primary metric. 

Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Border Gateway Protocol considers all peering partners that a router has and sends traffic 
to the router closest to the datas destination. The main goal of BGP is to find any path to the destination that is loop-free.

OSPF - 

NAT - 
Network Address translation is used to translate Private IP address to Public IP address to communicate LAN side of the Device
to Global Network. Network address translation can be processed in Router or Firewall.



