Computer Networks :
List of Computer connected each other physically or remotely to share info or data within each other.

Tyes:
PAN - smallest network which is very personal to a user eg: BT
LAN - spanned inside a building and operated under single administrative system 
        Eg: Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, GigaLAN
MAN - enerally expands throughout a city such as cable TV network. 
        It can be in the form of Ethernet,Token-ring, ATM, or Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI).
WAN - span across provinces and even a whole country

-----
Models:
OSI - 7 layers(App, presentation, session, transport, network, data link, physical ) - Open System Interconnect 
Internet - 4 layes(App, transport, Internet, link) - TCP/IP model 
-----
Hubs - used to connect the network devices

switches - advance version of hubs but it also direct the packet to specific devices (data link layer)
            When a data frame arrives at any port of a network switch, it examines the destination address, performs necessary checks 
            and sends the frame to the corresponding device(s). It supports unicast, multicast as well as broadcast communications.

routers - routes data packets between different networks like between LAN and the internet, operates on the network layer 
            of the OSI model and can also assign IP addresses, due to which it is capable of performing extra functions like
            security filtering and quality of service (QoS).

gateway - connects two different networks, of different protocols or architectures.
            a network node that forms a passage between two networks operating with different transmission protocols
            common type of gateways, the network gateway operates at layer 3, i.e. network layer of the OSI

repeaters - (physical layer)used to amplify or regenerate signals. 
            used in situations where the signal strength degrades over long distances

bridges - Bridges are used to connect two subnetworks that use interchangeable protocols. 
        It combines two LANs to form an extended LAN. The main difference between the bridge and repeater is that 
        the bridge has a penetrating efficiency.
        A bridge only passes those packets addressed from a node in one network to another node in the other network.
-----
Network Sockets - software component within a computer network node that acts as an endpoint for delivering and receiving data
        The software endpoint of node-internal IPC, which frequently utilizes the same API as a network socket, referred as socket
        Pipes are formed using the 'Pipe' system call, and sockets are generated with the 'socket' system call.

socket api's
create() - To construct a socket
bind() - It's a socket identifier, similar to a phone number for contacting someone.
connect() - Are you ready to make a connection?
listen() - Prepared to send a message
accept() - Confirmation is similar to accepting a call from a sender.
write() - To send data
read() - To receive data
close() - To make a relationship permanent
-----
Network Interface Card - hw component without this a computer cant connected to network

port number:
20,21	TCP	        File Transfer Protocol
23	TCP	        Telnet
25	TCP	        Simple Mail Transfer Protocol(SMTP)
53	TCP and UDP	Domain Name System(DNS)
110	TCP	        Post Office Protocol(POP3)
123	UDP	        Network Time Protocol(NTP)
-----
TCP/IP(Internet model)

1. Application Layer
In TCP/IP, the Application layer protocols provide services to the application software running on a computer. 
The application layer uses HTTP, POP3, and SMTP protocols. 
The application layer provides an interface between the software running on a computer and the network itself.

2. Transport Layer
In TCP/IP, the Transport layer includes transmission control protocol (TCP) and user datagram protocol (UDP). 
TCP provides services to the application layer that reside above the transport layer or higher within the TCP/IP model.

3. Internet Layer (Network Layer)
The Internet layer in the TCP/IP model is the Network Layer 3 of the OSI model. It stores the IP addresses and the routing data. 
When data is transmitted from a node on one LAN to a node on a different LAN, the Internet Layer is used. IPv4, IPv6, ICMP, 
and routing protocols (among others) are the Internet Layer TCP/IP protocols.

4. Host-to-Network or Link Layer
In TCP/IP, the Host-to-Network layer is also called the network interface or link layer. 
It provides services to the upper layer within the model. When a hosts or routers IP process chooses to send an IP packet 
to a different router or host, that host or router then uses the link-layer details to send that packet to the next host/router.
This layer is the lowermost layer of the TCP/IP model; it is concerned with the physical transmission of data. 
It is like a combination of the data link layer and physical layer of the OSI model
-----
OSI model
Layer 1	Physical Layer	        Transmission method used to propagate bits through a network
Layer 2	Data Link Layer	        Frame formatting for transmitting data across a physical communication line.
Layer 3	Network Layer	        Network addressing and packet transmission on the network.
Layer 4	Transport Layer	        Data tracking as it moves through a network.
Layer 5	Session Layer	        Job management tracking
Layer 6	Presentation Layer	Encoding the language used in transmission.
Layer 7	Application Layer	User networking applications and interfacing to the network.
---------------

Data Link Layer
Data link layer is responsible for converting data stream to signals bit by bit and to send that over the underlying hardware. 
At the receiving end, Data link layer picks up data from hardware which are in the form of electrical signals, 
assembles them in a recognizable frame format, and hands over to upper layer.

2 sub-layers:
Logical Link Control: It deals with protocols, flow-control, and error control
Media Access Control: It deals with actual control of media

functions:
Framing
Data-link layer takes packets from Network Layer and encapsulates them into Frames.Then, it sends each frame bit-by-bit on the 
hardware. At receiver end, data link layer picks up signals from hardware and assembles them into frames.

Addressing
Data-link layer provides layer-2 hardware addressing mechanism. Hardware address is assumed to be unique on the link. 
It is encoded into hardware at the time of manufacturing.

Synchronization
When data frames are sent on the link, both machines must be synchronized in order to transfer to take place.

Error Control
Sometimes signals may have encountered problem in transition and the bits are flipped.These errors are detected and attempted to 
recover actual data bits. It also provides error reporting mechanism to the sender.

Flow Control
Stations on same link may have different speed or capacity. Data-link layer ensures flow control that enables both machine to 
exchange data on same speed.

2 protocol:
stop and wait - forces the sender after transmitting a data frame to stop and wait until the acknowledgement of the data-frame sent is received.
sliding window - both sender and receiver agree on the number of data-frames after which the acknowledgement should be sent. 

Mac address:
MAC address is a 48 or 64-bit address associated with a network adapter.
MAC addresses are linked to the hardware of the network adapters, known as the "hardware address" or "physical address."
MAC addresses uniquely identify the adapter on the LAN.
MAC addresses are expressed in hexadecimal notation. For example, "01-23-45-67-89-AB" in a 48-bit address or 
"01-23-45-67-89-AB-CD-EF" in a 64-bit address. Sometimes, colons (:) are used instead of dashes (-).
MAC addresses are often considered permanent,


Multi-Access
When host on the shared link tries to transfer the data, it has a high probability of collision. Data-link layer provides mechanism 
such as CSMA/CD to equip capability of accessing a shared media among multiple Systems.
---------------






